There is planning to look at how do we close the gap. Cabinet not surprised to see difference because January strategic plan approved knw about gap 

"Was it a surprise: no; was it disheartening, yes."

"Our attention has been drawn to the gap. We made sure that the strategic plan had it as a top level concern" "It's a more coordinated effort" Every goal has a point person connected to it. These goals become incorporated in our reporting to the President. So as part of evaluation of our work. There wasn't one person responsible for it before. Someone is accountable. Provost is the point person. Registrar, VP for student life associated too.

Examine tools for measuring student risk of not returning graduating as well as student flourishing. Do these tools do a better job assessing kids from Christian High? Are there other factors that come into play that we should pay attention to.

How have we been defining the problem. Cultural/structural vs individual. If the problem is cultural or structural and the solution is personal.

"The easiest thing to work on is the individual. What's more difficult to work on is the cultural/structural. involves paradigm shift."

Things affecting retention, graduation

Ranging from individual to structural. Could be students leaving because there have been too 

"We have a very romantic vision of what college life is like." Students may experience microaggressions and feel out of place -> students can't make connection to "best time of their life" 

Financial reasons: may not be able get a job to pay for college or have family support. "That's a big investment." If first generation going to college parents probably don't have enough wealth (equity in home)

Lots of stuff regarding individual learning style, but she didn't connect this to AHANA students...

For some AHANA students there are too many microaggressions and barriers. Some leave, some stick it out and have less than the romantic version of college life. 

"It could be larger than the college [GR community]. GR doesn't fell as diverse as it is."

"I suspect that there is a mismatch between the way we are defining the problem and the solution we are offering. When the problem and solution are aligned we will see progress."

"When international students come here for the most part they are expecting a total shift in culture. They know this is not home and there is not an expectation that this will be like home. Expectations are very different on multiple levels." AHANA students do not expect as big of a shift. "The experience for AHANA students can be as dramatic a culture shock as it is for international students." Systems are in place to prepare international students (international passport, class) but not for AHANA. "There is greater anticipation of being percieved as different [for international students]." AHANA students know that Calvin will be predominantly white, but they may not have "felt the sting of being an underrepresnted person and they come here and feel it." Students may feel that their faith traditions [Assemblies of God, Pentecostal] are dismissed because of the emphasis on CRC (no speaking in tongues in chapel). 

"There are extra layers for admission to Calvin for international students." Have to pass English, financial test. Must show up front that they have the money and can do this. "There's more riding on their success." Collective identity.  Not so much collective identity for AHANA. If it gets hard they can save money by going to GVSU. It's not "the hopes are on you." International students more likely to feel that they have to succeed for their community and go back to make a difference. It's not as easy to to another school. AHANA students have more options. 

"Some AHANA students coming from underfunded schools has an impact on how well you can do here." "How many AHANA students can take advantage of AP classes?" "Level of intensity" in preparation: preparing for college or just graduating? 

"This isn't just white. This is Dutch white. There's a difference." "There is a cultural-religious-ethnic identity" not just among students but also in faculty/education since profs must be CRC and all teaching shaped by reformed worldview.  Not a pluralist perspective. "Reformed identity shaped in GR context, Reformedness interpreted through dutch west mi context"  Not necessarily bad, just different. "How do you negotiate that difference if you are still discovering your identity?" "Because I am black here do I have to be an educator?" still dealing with culture telling what it means to be black and stereotype threat. Hard to "help whites understand what the black condition is." 

"It's hard to be anonymous here." (because small as opposed to gvsu/msu)

We are calvin too: "It's made a difference for people willing to pay attention. It's taken a number of people by surprise. It was effective in raising awareness - now we must work to leverage that awareness." the last microaggressions workshop had to be moved three times because more people kept signing up (got 50 people). "It helped people to see 'maybe I'm not doing as well as I could be.'"

[Difference between Calvin and other schools] "I don't think there is a dramatic difference, but that is not an excuse." "If it was an easy fix we would have done it years ago."

[on increasing #s of AhANA students] "Calvin has begun looking at non-feeder schools. I really have to credit the Entrada program for the increase in numbers for AHANA students. That's a recruitment tool. Incorporating more 'unusual suspects' going beyond Christian High." being more aggressive in contacting people rather than waiting for people to come to Calvin. "We are paying attention."

