We have to do reporting to external organizations. Set the data measure at the same time very year. Trend data. information we report to federal government and college guidebooks. The college needs to know how we are doing.

We are down a little bit. Didn't bring in as many new students as hoped (Plan: 1000 FTIACs, 100 transfers) achieved last year, not this year.

One of the biggest issues students are faced with is cost as private school tuition increases we need to come up with more resources to make affordable. Competing with state and private institutions who can "out award" a student at a particular academic level.

When comparing two similar colleges cost is factor

Working with consulting firm to evaluate financial aid and scholarship most changes will come Fall 2016 reccommended substantial changes. Every 2-3 years reevaluate scholarships and financial aid.

Lots of outreach to prospective students and families through admissions encourage students to visit "often a dealmaker" thats really "great?" if we can get students to come to campus.

Not as many students from Christian schools overall. Record number of students from public schools. Areas where we will wpend more time working on. "Why are students from Christian schools not as often considering a place like Calvin?" Perhaps tuition at HS

Good showing from 7 key feeders but biggest drop in Christian schools outside West Michigan area. have Chicago admissions officer stationed. Those schools are becoming more diverse not as full of CRC kids looking at other Christian schools, public schools and secular private schools.

Even GRCHS 20 years ago 2/3? CRC now only 1/2? [Check those #s] Lots of kids from different denominations who don't feel connection to Calvin.

Athletic scholarships at college level increasingly a factor as high schools "ramp up" athletic programs. Cornerstone, Davenport, Aquinas can offer athletic scholarships. "Have to sell students on Division 3 student athlete model"

Growth in new majors public health, graphic design pulling in new students that weren't there before.

Ever since 08 recession trend against humanities and more towards higher paying professional fields. The recession kind of scared students and parents into thinking about if going to college having good job after graduation. Some turnaround.

Certain programs have to reengineer due to lack of students at upper level (arts languages)

Where prospect of job isnt as clear.

Kinesiology is an area that is also growing since 2010. Change in name as it ties into growth of health care (various types of therapy physical therapy etc) many students looking for something along those lines also speach path and nursing

Calvin a lot more diverse than hope (intl. student pop small). Calvin is a leader among peers in that respect. Outside audit of diversity and inclusion efforts. We have a lot of students from diverse backgrounds. Maybe we aren't serving them as well as we could be.